# SAP MaxDB

English

Additional Content

Provide feedback on our search



# Hot Standby System (With Shared Log Area)

This page provides introductory information about one of the hot standby functionality that is available for SAP
MaxDB/liveCache. The hot standby system concept (with shared log area) combines a high availability cluster software
and a storage replication technology (in the sense of a hardware-implemented data area cloning) with the SAP MaxDB
recovery mechanism.

### CAUTION

This hot standby solution for SAP MaxDB/liveCache must be supported/implemented by certified third party vendors!


See SAP note [3534972 - SAP MaxDB/liveCache Hot Standby\\
solutions](https://me.sap.com/notes/3534972) for available implementations. No other implementations are supported.

### Usecases and Benefits

The hot standby technology provides robust and fast failover and minimizes the failover impact on the
applications that work with the SAP MaxDB. Currently, setting up a hot standby configuration is the most advanced
approach to achieve high availability for a SAP MaxDB or SAP liveCache database.

The solution is particularly useful as building block of mission-critical SAP SCM scenarios in order to implement SAP
liveCache high availability. The hot standby completely obsoletes long-running rollback operations that occasionally
can occur with a traditional SAP liveCache restart after a system crash. It also prevents the performance
degradation that occurs due to the cold-restart. While any SAP MaxDB benefits from this, it is most usable in the
memory-centric SAP liveCache configurations to make the time that is required to restore the SAP liveCache business
availability more predictable.

### Required building blocks

The IT hardware infrastructure for a hot standby SAP MaxDB environments typically comprises of two clustered servers
with shared-access storage for the log volumes and additional storage capacity for the data volumes
that needs to support quick creation of a full physical data copy without denying r/w-access while the copy
process is ongoing.

SAP MaxDB supports hot standby with an API specification. There is a set of DBM commands to handle hot standby
databases. The hot standby concept is also integrated into the SAP MaxDB database manager. A third party vendor has to
provide a library that implements the API and runs as part of the RTE (runtime environment) of SAP MaxDB. Without this
library, a hot standby can not be configured. Typically the same vendor provides the cluster integration software for
the SAP MaxDB in order to seamlessly integrate all building blocks (see also SAP note [3534972 - SAP MaxDB/liveCache Hot Standby solutions](https://me.sap.com/notes/3534972)).

### An overview of how it works

The 3rd party library enhances the SAP MaxDB runtime environment with storage handling capabilities. It enables
the following behavior: A hot standby SAP MaxDB database can be started on a secondary server. The hot standby
maintains its own copy of data volumes. It will regularly consult the shared-access storage with the
log volume of the primary SAP MaxDB (that is running on a different server) in order to become aware of recent
changes that need to be applied to keep the standby data logically in sync with the primary data. If the standby can
not restore its own data volumes from the information that it finds in the active (='hot') logs of the primary
SAP MaxDB system, it will start the creation of a storage-level clone via the library. This should rarely be
necessary. It usually happens as part of the initial startup of a standby or as part of the first startup after the
standby was offline for a longer period of time while the primary SAP MaxDB system was busily running. The procedure
automatically builds up a consistent copy of the primary data without interrupting the primary operation. Afterwards
the physical copy gets split off from the primary data volumes. It will eventually be synchronized logically by the
standby database as described above.

_Notice:_ There is no need to separately implement a log shipping mechanism in a hot standby configuration.
There is also no need for permanent(!) hardware-based volume synchronization during SAP MaxDB runtime.

### See also

[HowTo - Standby\\
System (Recovery from Log Backup)](https://help.sap.com/docs/SUPPORT_CONTENT/maxdb/3362173875.html)